README.md, before:

# `oauth2-mock-server`

[![npm package](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/oauth2-mock-server.svg?logo=npm)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/oauth2-mock-server)
[![Node.js version](https://img.shields.io/node/v/oauth2-mock-server.svg)](https://nodejs.org/)

> _OAuth 2 mock server. Intended to be used for development or testing purposes._

When developing an application that exposes or consumes APIs that are secured with an OAuth 2 authorization scheme, a mechanism for issuing access tokens is needed. Frequently, a developer needs to create custom code that fakes the creation of tokens for testing purposes, and these tokens cannot be properly verified, since there is no actual entity issuing those tokens.

The purpose of this package is to provide an easily configurable OAuth 2 server, that can be set up and teared down at will, and can be programmatically run while performing automated tests.

> **Warning:** This tool is _not_ intended to be used as an actual OAuth 2 server. It lacks many features that would be required in a proper implementation.

## Development prerequisites

- [Node.js 12.0+](https://nodejs.org/)
- [Yarn 1.15.2+](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/)

## How to use

### Installation

Add it to your Node.js project as a development dependency:

With yarn...

```shell
yarn add -D oauth2-mock-server
```

...or with npm

```shell
npm install --save-dev oauth2-mock-server
```

### Quickstart

Here is an example for creating and running a server instance with a single random RSA key:

```js
const { OAuth2Server } = require('oauth2-mock-server');

let server = new OAuth2Server();

// Generate a new RSA key and add it to the keystore
await server.issuer.keys.generate('RS256');

// Start the server
await server.start(8080, 'localhost');
console.log('Issuer URL:', server.issuer.url); // -> http://localhost:8080

// Do some work with the server
// ...

// Stop the server
await server.stop();
```

Any number of existing JSON-formatted keys can be added to the keystore.

```js
// Add an existing JWK key to the keystore
await server.issuer.keys.add({
  kid: 'some-key',
  alg: 'RS256',
  kty: 'RSA',
  // ...
});
```

JSON Web Tokens (JWT) can be built programmatically:

```js
const request = require('request');

// Build a new token
let token = await server.issuer.buildToken();

// Call a remote API with the token
request.get(
  'https://server.example.com/api/endpoint',
  { auth: { bearer: token } },
  function callback(err, res, body) {
    /* ... */
  }
);
```

### Supported JWK formats

| Algorithm         | kty | alg                         |
| ----------------- | --- | --------------------------- |
| RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 | RSA | RS256, RS384, RS512         |
| RSASSA-PSS        | RSA | PS256, PS384, PS512         |
| ECDSA             | EC  | ES256, ES256K, ES384, ES512 |
| Edwards-curve DSA | OKP | EdDSA (Ed25519 / Ed448)     |

### Customization hooks

It also provides a convenient way, through event emitters, to programmatically customize the server processing. This is particularly useful when expecting the OIDC service to behave in a specific way on one single test:

- The JWT access token

  ```js
  // Modify the expiration time on next token produced
  service.once('beforeTokenSigning', (token, _req) => {
    const timestamp = Math.floor(Date.now() / 1000);
    token.payload.exp = timestamp + 400;
  });
  ```

  ```js
  // Add the client ID to a token
  const basicAuth = require('basic-auth');
  service.once('beforeTokenSigning', (token, req) => {
    const credentials = basicAuth(req);
    const clientId = credentials ? credentials.name : req.body.client_id;
    token.payload.client_id = clientId;
  });
  ```

- The token endpoint response body and status

  ```js
  // Force the oidc service to provide an invalid_grant response on next call to the token endpoint
  service.once('beforeResponse', (tokenEndpointResponse, req) => {
    tokenEndpointResponse.body = {
      error: 'invalid_grant',
    };
    tokenEndpointResponse.statusCode = 400;
  });
  ```

- The userinfo endpoint response body and status

  ```js
  // Force the oidc service to provide an error on next call to userinfo endpoint
  service.once('beforeUserinfo', (userInfoResponse, req) => {
    userInfoResponse.body = {
      error: 'invalid_token',
      error_message: 'token is expired',
    };
    userInfoResponse.statusCode = 401;
  });
  ```

- The revoke endpoint response body and status

  ```js
  // Simulates a custom token revocation body
  service.once('beforeRevoke', (revokeResponse, req) => {
    revokeResponse.body = {
      result: 'revoked',
    };
  });
  ```

- The authorization endpoint redirect uri and query parameters

  ```js
  // Modify the uri and query parameters before the authorization redirect
  service.once('beforeAuthorizeRedirect', (authorizeRedirectUri, req) => {
    authorizeRedirectUri.url.searchParams.set('foo', 'bar');
  });
  ```

- The end session endpoint post logout redirect uri

  ```js
  // Modify the uri and query parameters before the post_logout_redirect_uri redirect
  service.once('beforePostLogoutRedirect', (postLogoutRedirectUri, req) => {
    postLogoutRedirectUri.url.searchParams.set('foo', 'bar');
  });
  ```

## Supported endpoints

### GET `/.well-known/openid-configuration`

Returns the [OpenID Provider Configuration Information](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html#ProviderConfig) for the server.

### GET `/jwks`

Returns the JSON Web Key Set (JWKS) of all the keys configured in the server.

### POST `/token`

Issues access tokens. Currently, this endpoint is limited to:

- No authentication
- Client Credentials grant
- Resource Owner Password Credentials grant
- Authorization code grant
- Refresh token grant

### GET `/authorize`

It simulates the user authentication. It will automatically redirect to the callback endpoint sent as parameter.
It currently supports only 'code' response_type.

### GET `/userinfo`

It provides extra userinfo claims.

### POST `/revoke`

It simulates a token revocation. This endpoint should always return 200 as stated by [RFC 7009](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7009#section-2.2).

### GET `/endsession`

It simulates the end session endpoint. It will automatically redirect to the post_logout_redirect_uri sent as parameter.

## Command-Line Interface

The server can be run from the command line. You can either install it globally:

```shell
npm install -g oauth2-mock-server
oauth2-mock-server --help
```

or run it directly:

```shell
npx oauth2-mock-server --help
```

## Attributions

- [`jose`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jose)

Commit message:

Add basic SSL support + tests (#139)
* Add basic SSL support + tests

* Also update the issuer with http/https if we switch on SSL

* Update readme with HTTPS info
Rename ssl enabled field to isSecured to be protocol agnostic and make it protected
Create a specific type for our supported HttpServerOptions
Add a throw if both cert/key aren't supplied
Added tests to check the throwing for cert/key being supplied, and properly stop the server in the https test

* Fix usage of double quotes instead of single
Import readFileSync instead of all of fs
Replace comma with period in new cert/key cli output

* Remove extra empty line in readme

README.md, after:

# `oauth2-mock-server`

[![npm package](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/oauth2-mock-server.svg?logo=npm)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/oauth2-mock-server)
[![Node.js version](https://img.shields.io/node/v/oauth2-mock-server.svg)](https://nodejs.org/)

> _OAuth 2 mock server. Intended to be used for development or testing purposes._

When developing an application that exposes or consumes APIs that are secured with an OAuth 2 authorization scheme, a mechanism for issuing access tokens is needed. Frequently, a developer needs to create custom code that fakes the creation of tokens for testing purposes, and these tokens cannot be properly verified, since there is no actual entity issuing those tokens.

The purpose of this package is to provide an easily configurable OAuth 2 server, that can be set up and teared down at will, and can be programmatically run while performing automated tests.

> **Warning:** This tool is _not_ intended to be used as an actual OAuth 2 server. It lacks many features that would be required in a proper implementation.

## Development prerequisites

- [Node.js 12.0+](https://nodejs.org/)
- [Yarn 1.15.2+](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/)

## How to use

### Installation

Add it to your Node.js project as a development dependency:

With yarn...

```shell
yarn add -D oauth2-mock-server
```

...or with npm

```shell
npm install --save-dev oauth2-mock-server
```

### Quickstart

Here is an example for creating and running a server instance with a single random RSA key:

```js
const { OAuth2Server } = require('oauth2-mock-server');

let server = new OAuth2Server();

// Generate a new RSA key and add it to the keystore
await server.issuer.keys.generate('RS256');

// Start the server
await server.start(8080, 'localhost');
console.log('Issuer URL:', server.issuer.url); // -> http://localhost:8080

// Do some work with the server
// ...

// Stop the server
await server.stop();
```

Any number of existing JSON-formatted keys can be added to the keystore.

```js
// Add an existing JWK key to the keystore
await server.issuer.keys.add({
  kid: 'some-key',
  alg: 'RS256',
  kty: 'RSA',
  // ...
});
```

JSON Web Tokens (JWT) can be built programmatically:

```js
const request = require('request');

// Build a new token
let token = await server.issuer.buildToken();

// Call a remote API with the token
request.get(
  'https://server.example.com/api/endpoint',
  { auth: { bearer: token } },
  function callback(err, res, body) {
    /* ... */
  }
);
```

### Supported JWK formats

| Algorithm         | kty | alg                         |
| ----------------- | --- | --------------------------- |
| RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 | RSA | RS256, RS384, RS512         |
| RSASSA-PSS        | RSA | PS256, PS384, PS512         |
| ECDSA             | EC  | ES256, ES256K, ES384, ES512 |
| Edwards-curve DSA | OKP | EdDSA (Ed25519 / Ed448)     |

### Customization hooks

It also provides a convenient way, through event emitters, to programmatically customize the server processing. This is particularly useful when expecting the OIDC service to behave in a specific way on one single test:

- The JWT access token

  ```js
  // Modify the expiration time on next token produced
  service.once('beforeTokenSigning', (token, _req) => {
    const timestamp = Math.floor(Date.now() / 1000);
    token.payload.exp = timestamp + 400;
  });
  ```

  ```js
  // Add the client ID to a token
  const basicAuth = require('basic-auth');
  service.once('beforeTokenSigning', (token, req) => {
    const credentials = basicAuth(req);
    const clientId = credentials ? credentials.name : req.body.client_id;
    token.payload.client_id = clientId;
  });
  ```

- The token endpoint response body and status

  ```js
  // Force the oidc service to provide an invalid_grant response on next call to the token endpoint
  service.once('beforeResponse', (tokenEndpointResponse, req) => {
    tokenEndpointResponse.body = {
      error: 'invalid_grant',
    };
    tokenEndpointResponse.statusCode = 400;
  });
  ```

- The userinfo endpoint response body and status

  ```js
  // Force the oidc service to provide an error on next call to userinfo endpoint
  service.once('beforeUserinfo', (userInfoResponse, req) => {
    userInfoResponse.body = {
      error: 'invalid_token',
      error_message: 'token is expired',
    };
    userInfoResponse.statusCode = 401;
  });
  ```

- The revoke endpoint response body and status

  ```js
  // Simulates a custom token revocation body
  service.once('beforeRevoke', (revokeResponse, req) => {
    revokeResponse.body = {
      result: 'revoked',
    };
  });
  ```

- The authorization endpoint redirect uri and query parameters

  ```js
  // Modify the uri and query parameters before the authorization redirect
  service.once('beforeAuthorizeRedirect', (authorizeRedirectUri, req) => {
    authorizeRedirectUri.url.searchParams.set('foo', 'bar');
  });
  ```

- The end session endpoint post logout redirect uri

  ```js
  // Modify the uri and query parameters before the post_logout_redirect_uri redirect
  service.once('beforePostLogoutRedirect', (postLogoutRedirectUri, req) => {
    postLogoutRedirectUri.url.searchParams.set('foo', 'bar');
  });
  ```

### HTTPS support
It also provides basic HTTPS support, an optional cert and key can be supplied to start the server with SSL/TLS using the in-built NodeJS [HTTPS](https://nodejs.org/api/https.html) module.

We recommend using a package to create a locally trusted certificate, like [mkcert](https://github.com/FiloSottile/mkcert).
  ```
  new OAuth2Server('test-assets/mock-auth/key.pem', 'test-assets/mock-auth/cert.pem')
  ```
NOTE: Enabling HTTPS will also update the issuer URL to reflect the current protocol.

## Supported endpoints

### GET `/.well-known/openid-configuration`

Returns the [OpenID Provider Configuration Information](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html#ProviderConfig) for the server.

### GET `/jwks`

Returns the JSON Web Key Set (JWKS) of all the keys configured in the server.

### POST `/token`

Issues access tokens. Currently, this endpoint is limited to:

- No authentication
- Client Credentials grant
- Resource Owner Password Credentials grant
- Authorization code grant
- Refresh token grant

### GET `/authorize`

It simulates the user authentication. It will automatically redirect to the callback endpoint sent as parameter.
It currently supports only 'code' response_type.

### GET `/userinfo`

It provides extra userinfo claims.

### POST `/revoke`

It simulates a token revocation. This endpoint should always return 200 as stated by [RFC 7009](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7009#section-2.2).

### GET `/endsession`

It simulates the end session endpoint. It will automatically redirect to the post_logout_redirect_uri sent as parameter.

## Command-Line Interface

The server can be run from the command line. You can either install it globally:

```shell
npm install -g oauth2-mock-server
oauth2-mock-server --help
```

or run it directly:

```shell
npx oauth2-mock-server --help
```

## Attributions

- [`jose`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jose)
